Scope of Work 

Welcome to Club Target!  As a Club Target creator, you help bring Target to life. Your content 
shows real finds, real moments and real inspiration. You help your followers and fellow 
Target fans discover what they love -- you are a major part of what makes the Target 
community so special. 

As a creator within Club Target, here's what to expect: 

1.  Complete a few simple challenges and earn 100 points to unlock Tier 2. 
2.  You can join and participate in as many challenges as you Like. 
3.  Each challenge earns you points to help you level up through each tier of the 

program.  

4.  As you level up you’ll unlock bigger rewards and exclusive perks. Keep sharing your 

Target finds band completing challenges to keep growing. 

5.  If you receive gifted product, you are expected to post at least once to your 

Instagram feed or TikTok within 30 days of receiving it, unless stated otherwise in the 
gifting opportunity terms.  

Content Use 

As a member of Club Target, you are agreeing that any content you submit to the program 
or that you explicitly reference with #ClubTarget in social media may be used and re-
purposed by Target for promotional, marketing and advertising purposes, both online and 
offline, without any compensation beyond the benefits provided as part of Club Target. 
Wherever possible, Target will credit you as the creator of the content by using your social 
media handle, name or username. However, due to technical limitations or space 
constraints, explicit attribution may not always be possible. 

 By participating in the program, you consent to receive email communications about 
program updates, task reminders, rewards, and marketing opportunities. You can 
unsubscribe at any time.  

Content Expectations  

When posting on social media, you must include:  

•  The hashtags required for each challenge submission, including #TargetPartner 
• 

imagery that is respectful and appropriate for all audiences.  

When posting on social media, you cannot include:  

•  References to products/services from any other brands.  

•  Mentions, images or references to any offensive, harmful, or illegal content.  
•  Disparaging comments towards brands, competitors, employees, social 

personalities or religious characters.  

•  Content that infringes on the intellectual property rights or privacy of any third party.  

FTC Compliance 

If you share Target products or links as part of the Club Target program, you must clearly 
disclose that you may earn rewards and/or commissions. This is required by federal law 
and applies to every post where Target is mentioned or linked, including your Club Target 
challenge content. 

How to Disclose (Required) 

For Instagram and TikTok, include the following at the very beginning of your caption or on-
screen text: 

#TargetPartner 

Placement rules: 

•  Must appear within the first 2 lines of captions 

•  On Stories and videos, place it on screen and near the link or product 

•  The disclosure must be visible without tapping “more” or scrolling 

Videos & Stories 

•  The disclosure must appear early in the video or Story frame 

•  For multi-frame Stories or longer videos, repeat the disclosure 

•  Each Story frame with a Target link or product must include a disclosure 

What Doesn’t Count 

•  Disclosure only in your bio 

•  Disclosure hidden at the end of captions 

•  Relying solely on platform “paid partnership” tools   

Failure to properly disclose may result in removal from the program. 

Termination  

You or Target are able to delete your Club Target account at any time.  

Your partnership may be terminated by Target if:  

1.  Your account is inactive for a period of 3 months or longer.  
2.  You sell, transfer, license or assign your rewards, account, submissions, 

reward credits, loyalty points or any account rights (or attempt to do any of 
the same) to anyone other than yourself.  

3.  You fail to meet the program expectations, which may include but is not 

limited to:  

a.  posting or submitting content that is of low quality.  
b.  posting or submitting content that doesn’t adhere to our Target 

guidelines or FTC guidelines 

c.  posting or submitting content that doesn’t meet the terms outlined in 

the Scope of Work.  

If you agree to all of the points mentioned above, let’s go! 

