THE GENTLE MUSE — COMPETITOR TEARDOWNS AND THE CONTRACT, RUN 8 OF 28

New. Created 09/01/2026. Written after a measured failure, not a suspected one.

TOOLS: gm_teardown_check.py, gm_bind_check.py (extended)
DATA:  data/competitor-teardowns.csv
Live with the filing engine. Companion to Run 6 and Run 7.

WHY THIS RUN EXISTS
The number is 30,671 views and 13 email subscribers. Views to followers works.
Followers to email does not. That is not a taste problem and no amount of
better writing fixes it, because the writing is already good.

So the question became what the accounts that do convert are actually doing,
and the answer had to come from their content rather than from anybody's
opinion about their content. Eight accounts were torn down. Five are women in
the senior dog and pet loss lane, one is the format leader, and two are pages
currently paying to distribute senior dog material.

WHAT THE TEARDOWNS FOUND
Not one of them asks for the follow. Every one of them states a promise.

  Jen at @thatgoodnewsgirl closes on "I'm Jen, and I post something positive
  every day." That is a delivery and a frequency. The follow is the mechanism
  for receiving it, so it does not have to be requested.

  @jackiepajan opens on "You know how I feel about the seniors, guys." That
  sentence is unavailable on video one. It is what a stance sounds like after
  it has been repeated until the audience holds it for her.

  @kristentbrown ran to 2.9 million views at a 22 percent like rate on a
  caption that names her father and her dead dog before it names the dog she
  adopted. The senior dog is the evidence. The grief is the subject. People
  were not liking a dog, they were agreeing with a claim about their own
  future.

That is the finding. A call to action is a request. A contract is a promise
with a frequency or a stance behind it, and it is the thing an audience can
subscribe to. Amanda has been shipping requests.

WHY THIS IS A COLUMN AND NOT A REMINDER
Run 6 established the pattern. When the same failure lands twice, the fix is
the missing field and a check that refuses to ship without it, because guidance
governs judgment and judgment is what already failed. A note saying "state a
promise" would be read by the same step that has been writing good calls to
action and thinking the job was done.

So a reel payload now carries a contract, and gm_teardown_check.py refuses any
reel that carries a call to action without one. It also refuses a contract that
is a request wearing a promise's clothes. Follow for more, link in bio, don't
forget to, and the rest of that family are rejected by name.

The two contracts in force:

  History lane   Every holiday carries a fact somebody softened. I post the
                 real one before the day arrives.
  Cesa lane      Cesa is old and I am keeping the record while she is still
                 here.

Both are checkable. The first is checkable against the calendar, which already
carries LeadDays, so the promise to post before the day is one the data keeps.
The second is checkable against whether the footage keeps arriving.

WHAT THE BANK REFUSES
The teardown bank has a Confidence column with two states that matter. A row is
either backed by an artifact somebody read, or it is a name in somebody else's
roundup. The gate will not let the second be cited as the first.

This exists because the research nearly failed in exactly that way. Asked to
pick the accounts, the honest position was that mid-tier handles could not be
enumerated without inventing them, and an invented handle is indistinguishable
from a real one until somebody tries to open it. Three nostalgia names came
back from a published list with no handle attached. They are in the bank as
leads, marked unusable, and they will stay that way until an artifact is
pulled. An AI research query returned one unconfirmed handle and was discarded.

That is rule 5 made mechanical. No substitution. When the right input is
missing, say so and stop.

WHAT ELSE THIS RUN CLOSED
The reel factory payloads had never passed the Run 6 binding gate. They use a
different shape, one plate under a whole reel with timed beats over it, and the
gate could not read it, so make-reels.sh would have refused to render on
Amanda's machine and the five reels already built were bound by hand with
nothing checking the hand. The gate now reads that shape. All ten reels pass.

HAL-009-CESA and HAL-013-CESA both assert that Cesa is 19. That number was
written by an assistant before anyone had asked, so both reels were held and
the gate returned HOLD. Amanda confirmed the age on 09/01/2026 and both are
released.

The hold was the right call and the release is not the end of it. A number that
happened to be correct is still a number nobody could check, and the next
assistant writing a Cesa reel would have had to guess again. So the age now
lives in data/subject-facts.csv with who confirmed it and when, and the two
reels cite SUB-001 rather than asserting it on their own authority.

The standing rule: a claim about Amanda or Cesa that is not in subject-facts.csv
goes in the payload's holds array. Not deleted, not softened, not guessed at a
second time. Held, in the file, where it blocks the render until she answers.

Five bindings are declared metaphors. A still of Cesa under a caption about
Hocus Pocus shares no word with the caption by design, and the gate now
requires that to be stated rather than allowing it to pass unnoticed.

REQUEST TO DELIVERY, AND THE KEYWORD BEHIND IT
Amanda's instruction, in her words: authority, promise, delivery. We are not
asking anybody for anything. So the closing beat of every reel was rewritten.
The mechanic did not change. Only the grammar did.

  Was   Share it / Send this to whoever still says they were burned.
  Now   The real one / Somebody you know still says burned. You can fix
        that now.

The share still happens. It is simply stated as a fact about a person the
viewer knows rather than an instruction to the viewer. C04_REQUEST_NOT_DELIVERY
enforces it by refusing any closing beat, label or line, that opens on an
imperative: send, share, tag, follow, comment, save, drop, like, subscribe,
click, grab, download, watch, swipe and the rest of that family.

Then the bigger finding, which only surfaced because the automations were
finally read rather than assumed about. Amanda runs twelve live comment-to-DM
automations across Instagram and Facebook. GUIDE, CONSIDER, RESET, TUESDAY,
CESA and PLAY are all armed, and TUESDAY and CONSIDER capture an email address
before they deliver. Comment to DM converts three to five times better than a
link in bio on ManyChat's own numbers across a million campaigns.

Not one of the ten reels named a keyword. 30,671 views went out over a machine
that was built, live, and never pointed at.

The four Cesa reels now close on CESA, which delivers the guide called 19 Years
Old, 10 of Them Mine. That match is exact, and it got better the day Amanda
confirmed the age the reels already assert.

The six history reels name no keyword, and that is recorded rather than fixed.
GUIDE is about AI tools. CONSIDER is home curation. TUESDAY is building with
AI. PLAY is audiobooks. RESET is overwhelm. None of them is what somebody who
just watched a Salem fact wants next, and jamming the nearest one in would be
the substitution this system exists to refuse. So each of those six carries a
keyword_gap saying so, and C05_NO_CAPTURE_PATH refuses a reel that stays silent
about where the viewer goes next. The gap is now a visible standing finding
instead of an oversight nobody wrote down.

The real fix is a history lane lead magnet, and the material for it already
exists. The fact bank is 50 sourced holiday facts with the turn on each one.
That is the product. The contract already names it.

HOW TO RUN IT
  python3 filing-system/scripts/gm_teardown_check.py --bank filing-system/data/competitor-teardowns.csv
  python3 filing-system/scripts/gm_teardown_check.py --render reel-factory/
  python3 filing-system/scripts/gm_bind_check.py --render reel-factory/ --library filing-system/data/clip-library-drive.csv
  bash filing-system/tests/run-tests.sh

Exit 0 passes. Exit 1 blocks. Exit 2 holds and waits on Amanda.

WHAT THIS RUN DOES NOT DO
It does not post, schedule, or publish anything. It does not add a competitor
to Metricool. It does not decide the contracts are right, only that they exist
and are not requests. Approval is still the gate.

SAFETY
Propose-only. Both scripts read and neither writes to anything outside a report
file it was asked for. Nothing is deleted. Nothing is routed. A PASS is a
proposal.
