THE GENTLE MUSE — THE SYMPHONY RELAY

New. Created 09/08/2026. Written after the first live call, not before it.

TOOLS: gm_symphony.py
TESTS: tests/symphony-stub.py, run-tests.sh
Credential: SYMPHONY_TOKEN in the environment. Never in this repo.

WHAT SYMPHONY IS
Symphony is Amanda's team of AI business agents. It can schedule, reach out to
her contacts, follow up, build reports and act on her business. It acts as her.
A message sent to it is not a question put to a tool. It is Amanda speaking
with her own authority, and whatever comes of it is done in her name.

That is the whole reason this relay exists as a script instead of a curl line
in a chat window. A curl line has no propose step, no token discipline and no
way to tell a real answer from a wall.

HOW IT IS USED
  python3 gm_symphony.py --message "..."             proposes, sends nothing
  python3 gm_symphony.py --message "..." --send      sends and waits
  python3 gm_symphony.py --resume <conversationId>   collects a late answer
  add --expect-data when the message asks for facts

The default prints the exact message, the session it will land in and the
endpoint it will reach, then stops. Rule 1 of this workspace is propose only,
and an agent that can email a contact list is the last place to make an
exception. --send is the execute flag.

The token is read from SYMPHONY_TOKEN. Without it the relay stops and says so
rather than sending unsigned, which is rule 5. The token is scrubbed from
everything the relay prints, on every path, and a test asserts that on 3 of
them. It is revocable in Symphony, Settings, Connections.

WHY THE WALL CHECK IS A CHECK AND NOT A NOTE
The first live call was made on 09/08 as a connection test. It asked Symphony
what it could do. The transport behaved perfectly. The ask returned a
conversation id, 2 polls returned pending, the third returned this:

  status: answered
  reply:  "You've reached your daily credit limit, so your agents paused
           midway. They'll pick up where they left off when your credits
           reset tomorrow."

Read the envelope and everything succeeded. HTTP 200 twice. Status answered.
A reply string present and non empty. Read the string and nothing happened at
all. The agents paused midway, which means some of the work may have started
and stopped in the middle.

An assistant polling in a loop and printing .reply would have shown that text
and moved on, and the next thing written down would have been that Symphony
had been asked and had responded. Both true. Both useless. The task would sit
undone with a green mark against it.

This is the Run 6 shape again. The pairing step had nothing to pair on, so the
fix was the missing column and a gate, not a reminder to look closer. Here the
caller has no field that distinguishes a delivered answer from a refusal
wearing an answer's envelope, so the fix is that field. wall_reason() carries
the markers, the relay exits 1 when one fires, and it says in plain words that
the work has not happened and must not be recorded as done. Exit 0 is reserved
for an answer that is actually an answer.

The marker list will catch a genuine reply that happens to discuss credits, if
Amanda ever asks Symphony about her own billing. That is the trade taken on
purpose. A false flag costs one read. A missed wall costs a task everyone
believes is finished.

THE SECOND WALL, THE ONE THAT SOUNDS LIKE AN ANSWER
The credit wall announces itself. The other refusal does not.

Asked what is on the calendar, an agent that cannot reach the calendar will
describe what it could do for you once things are connected. That reply is
fluent, on topic, and empty, and it reads like an answer to everything except
a person checking it against her own accounts. It is the same failure as the
wall, wearing better manners.

The relay catches it when 2 signals agree. HEDGES holds the phrasings of a
capability description rather than a report, the "I can help", the "once you
connect", the "I do not have access". EVIDENCE counts the particulars that
make a claim checkable, digits and weekdays and months. Under 3 particulars
alongside a hedge, and the reply is describing rather than reporting.

Both are required on purpose. A blurb carries hedges and no particulars. A
real answer that closes with an offer to move a meeting carries both, and
passes, which a hedge test on its own would have failed.

WHY IT IS OPT IN
--expect-data turns the check on, and the default leaves it off.

This is the important part. Prose is the correct answer to a question that
wanted prose. Asked what to post on Tuesday, a good reply is 4 sentences with
no dates in it at all, and a check that fires there would be wrong every time
Amanda asked for judgment rather than facts. A check that cries wolf on the
work she does most gets ignored inside a week, and then it is not a check.

So the caller states the standard. The propose step notices when a message
reads as a request for facts and --expect-data was not passed, and says so.
It notices, it does not decide, because guessing wrong is the one thing that
would make this untrustworthy.

An honest refusal fires it too. "I do not have access to your calendar" is a
truthful sentence and a failed capability, and the point of the run was to
learn whether the ability is real. Honest still means unproven.

WHAT THE FIRST REAL PROBE TAUGHT
On 09/09 at 08:13 the credit wall had lifted and Symphony answered a read only
capability probe for real. Of the 3 things asked for, 1 came back with data.

  calendar  7 days of real events with dates and times, verifiable
  contacts  lookup exists, no count, no outreach on record
  posts     no read access to Instagram, TikTok or Facebook history

The check stayed quiet, correctly, and the reason is worth keeping. That reply
carried 56 particulars, and the original HEDGES list matched none of it. It
declines in a register the list never anticipated, not "I cannot access" but
"I do not have direct read access", "I could pull it", "I can not see those".
So it passed on the hedge gate rather than on the evidence gate, which was the
right outcome reached by the wrong door. A pure blurb in that same voice would
have gone through unflagged.

The list now carries Symphony's own words, taken from that reply. Widening it
is safe precisely because 2 signals are required. Rescored afterwards, the
same real answer matches 7 hedges and still passes on 56 particulars, which is
the AND requirement doing the work it was put there for.

The second lesson is about the money. The credit wall and the missing access
are different problems. Premium removes the daily limit. It does not appear to
grant social read access, because Symphony describes that as needing a
connected tool rather than a paid tier. Buying the plan to fix the posts
question would be buying the wrong thing.

EXIT CODES
  0  Symphony answered
  1  Symphony replied and nothing came back. Either the credit wall, or,
     under --expect-data, a reply that describes rather than reports.
  2  the exchange could not be completed. No token, refused token, no
     network, malformed response, or silence past the wait.

Silence is 2 and not 1, and the conversation stays open. The relay prints the
--resume line to collect it later. Symphony turns can run past 2 minutes, so a
timeout is not a failure, it is an answer that has not arrived yet.

WHAT IS STILL OPEN
A read only probe has now been through the relay and came back real. No
message that asks Symphony to change anything has, and that is the next
threshold. The
transport, the polling, the timeout, the resume path and the wall detection are
all verified, 17 cases against a local stub plus the live calls. The first
real instruction to Symphony is still ahead, and it should be small, and
Amanda should read the propose output before it goes.

Rule 3 does not bend here either. Sensitive material is held, never handed to
an agent that will act on it unattended. The relay does not classify what it
is given. Amanda does, at the propose step, which is what the propose step is
for.
