THE GENTLE MUSE — PHOTO TRIAGE SOP, RUN 4 OF 28

New. Extends the Downloads Maintenance SOP to photos. Created 08/19/2026.
Run 3 routed footage. Run 4 routes stills. Same engine, different enemy.

TOOL: GM-Photo-Triage.ps1
Companion to asset_scanner.py and GM-Video-Triage.ps1. Not a replacement.

WHY PHOTOS ARE NOT VIDEO
Run 3's rules break on stills. 4 things change:
1. Volume. A Takeout export holds thousands of photos, not dozens of clips.
   Individual thumbnails don't scale. Contact sheets do.
2. The enemy is the burst, not the copy. SHA-256 catches byte-identical files.
   It does nothing about 8 nearly identical shots fired in 2 seconds, which is
   where most of the waste actually lives.
3. Takeout ships sidecars. Every photo can carry a .json holding the real
   capture time and GPS. File dates lie after an export. The sidecar doesn't.
4. Screenshots pretend to be content. They're the single largest junk category
   in a Downloads folder and they're invisible to a size or duplicate check.

THE CONSTRAINT
Thousands of files, and Amanda isn't scrolling them. Every photo is read
locally. Only survivors get pictured, tiled 36 to a sheet. The CUT pile never
gets a thumbnail because it doesn't need eyes. A 3,000 photo library comes
back as roughly 40 sheets and one CSV.

THE LOOP
1. Run propose-only. Nothing moves.
   .\GM-Photo-Triage.ps1 -Root "D:\Takeout\Google Photos"
2. Read SUMMARY.txt. Check the GPS count first, before anything else.
3. Send the contact-sheets folder and the CSV to Claude.
4. Claude returns the visual pass per row, KEEP or CUT or REVIEW.
5. Amanda approves the CUT list. Nothing gets acted on without this step.
6. Re-run with -Execute. Flagged files move to _QUARANTINE.
7. Approved KEEP rows paste into the Master Asset Index. Columns already match.
8. Log the run. Update the run counter to 4 of 28.

VERDICT RULES
CUT     exact SHA-256 duplicate, burst near-duplicate, screenshot,
        under 30 KB, or under 1 megapixel.
REVIEW  carries GPS, landscape, or anything the rules can't call.
KEEP    vertical or square, over 1 MP, and a Takeout edited version.
Machine verdicts are proposals. Amanda's approval is the gate.

BURST LOGIC
Photos sharing a capture minute and identical dimensions are one burst.
The largest file in the group wins, because least compressed usually means
sharpest. Everything else in that group is CUT and tagged with its group ID,
so a wrong call is reversible by filtering one column.
This is the rule that reclaims the most space. Watch it on the first run.

TAKEOUT SPECIFICS
Sidecar lookup tries 3 names, in order:
  <file>.json, <file>.supplemental-metadata.json, <basename>.json
photoTakenTime beats the filesystem date. geoData sets the privacy flag.
Files ending -edited or (edited) are Google Photos edits. They're kept as
deliberate work, and the original is left alone rather than auto-cut. Amanda
decides whether the pair collapses.

PRIVACY GATE
Any photo whose sidecar carries a real latitude or longitude is flagged GPS
and forced to REVIEW, never auto-KEEP. Location data survives a re-upload and
publishes the house. Strip it before posting. This gate exists because the
personal lanes, Personal and CGY and OF, are exactly the photos most likely
to be geotagged and least intended for a public feed.
Sensitive or personal photos are held, never auto-routed. Same as Run 1.

LANE INFERENCE
Same lanes as the Master Asset Index, read from path and filename.
princesa, cesa, golden years -> CGY   |  kersh, vending -> KV
fresh spin, laundry -> FS             |  of, onlyfans -> OF
family, memories, personal -> Personal|  everything else -> GM
Override with -Lane CGY on a known folder. Cesa photo batches should use it.

OUTPUT
photo-triage.csv     Master Asset Index columns, plus Verdict, Why,
                     Resolution, Megapixels, TakenDate, BurstGroup,
                     Privacy, SizeKB, FullPath, SHA256.
contact-sheets\      6x6 grids, 240px cells, KEEP and REVIEW only.
SUMMARY.txt          counts, GPS count, reclaimable MB.

SAFETY
Propose-only is the default, same house rule as asset_scanner.py.
-Execute moves files to _QUARANTINE. It never deletes them.
The only delete command in the script targets its own temp scratch folder,
never a photo. Verified before release.

LIMITS, STATED PLAINLY
Dimensions need ffmpeg. Without it, size and burst rules still run, but the
orientation and megapixel rules go quiet. winget install Gyan.FFmpeg
Burst detection groups on capture minute plus dimensions. It's a strong proxy,
not true visual similarity. 2 unrelated photos shot the same minute at the
same size will group. That's why the group ID is in the CSV.
HEIC depends on the local ffmpeg build. If HEIC dimensions come back blank,
that's the build, not the file.
The script is syntax-validated and confirmed to hold no delete command against
user files. It hasn't been executed on a Windows machine yet. First run is the
real test. Send the error if it throws.

NOT INCLUDED
Video. That's Run 3, already written.
Blur and exposure scoring. Needs a real image library, and the burst rule
already removes most of what blur scoring would catch. Revisit if the first
run shows soft keepers surviving.
Face grouping. Out of scope, and not something to automate on personal lanes.
Editing of any kind. This run sorts. It doesn't touch pixels.

THE REAL CEILING
Run 3 asks whether the video bottleneck is sorting or filming. Run 4 answers
a different question: how much usable brand imagery already exists. The Master
Asset Index currently lists roughly 12 content photos for GM. If the local
library holds 200 more, the carousel and Pinterest lanes stop being blocked on
new shoots. If it doesn't, that's the shoot list, and knowing it is the win.
