THE GENTLE MUSE — THE OFFER LADDER AND THE PRICE GATE, RUN 9 OF 28

New. Created 09/18/2026. Written after a measured failure, not a suspected one.

TOOLS: gm_offer_check.py, gm_cta_check.py (extended), gm_queue_daily.py (fixed)
DATA:  data/offer-ladder.csv, data/magnet-map.csv (extended)
Live with the filing engine. Companion to Run 6, Run 7 and Run 8.


WHY THIS RUN EXISTS

The pivot to HANDLED arrived as 3 prose handoffs. Each one carried its own copy
of the prices, the keywords and the offer names, and each one called itself the
source of truth. The handoff dated 09/17 closes with the rule that holds the
whole arrangement together:

  "When one of us changes a standing fact (price, keyword, URL), the others
  update every downstream artifact in the same turn. No stale terms
  resurfacing."

That rule was already broken at the moment it was written. The automations were
read live and compared against it. 5 of its standing facts were wrong:

  It says DECISION does not exist in Blotato and must never be used as a call
  to action. Automation 451 answers DECISION on the main Instagram account, is
  active, is published, and sells The Decision Map at $47.

  It says FALLFIT does not exist. Automation 2277 answers it.

  It says CESA is blocked by a validation bug and that "comment CESA" must
  never be written. Automations 445, 432 and 2952 all answer CESA, all 3 are
  active and published. The real CESA failure is in the keyword audit and it is
  a different failure: 2 of 4 runs returned "the comment you are trying to reply
  to already has a reply", which is what happens when one comment is used twice.

  It says PRINCESS replaces CESA. PRINCESS answers on 1 account, the senior dog
  account, as 1 of 47 trigger phrases on automation 2952. It has never answered
  on the main Instagram account or on Facebook. Telling a main account post to
  say PRINCESS sends it to an automation that is not listening.

  It says GUIDE is Instagram only and CONSIDER is the senior dog account only.
  GUIDE answers on both main accounts. CONSIDER answers on all 3.

It was right about WAITLIST. WAITLIST is in no automation, and the launch pack
ships a post telling readers to comment it.

The prices drifted the same way. The handoff proposes HANDLED Monthly at $750 a
month. $750 is already the price of The Chaos Cleanup Plan, a different product,
sitting in a drafted automation. The retainer that HANDLED Monthly repackages is
drafted at $600 a month on a 3 month minimum. One number had come to mean 2
things, and nothing in the chain could see it.


WHY THIS IS A TABLE AND NOT A REMINDER

Run 6 established the pattern. When the same failure lands twice, the fix is the
missing field and a check that refuses to ship without it, because guidance
governs judgment and judgment is what already failed.

"Update every downstream artifact in the same turn" is guidance. It asks 3
assistants to each remember the same 30 facts and to notice when one changes. It
failed inside its own document.

So the standing facts now live in 2 tables that are compared against the
platform by a script, and the prose handoffs become what they should have been
from the start, which is commentary.


THE MISSING FIELD

PriceStatus. It is not anybody's memory of whether Amanda approved a price. It
is evidenced by where the price actually lives, which is checkable:

  live        a customer can see this price right now, on a published surface
  drafted     written into an automation that exists and is not published
  proposed    exists only in a document
  unverified  named in a document and found nowhere at all

The handoffs say "never publish a price she has not approved" 3 times across 2
files. That sentence has no machine meaning. PriceStatus does. Only live may
appear on a customer facing surface, and live means it is already published,
which is the only form of approval that leaves a trace.


WHAT THE GATE REFUSES

  Q01  a price in a caption, in on screen text, or in a voiceover. Amanda's
       voice rule, never enforced anywhere before this. The launch pack's
       caption 9 names an hourly rate twice.
  Q02  a price on a page, form, DM or email whose PriceStatus is not live. The
       application form names $3,000 for an offer that exists only in a
       document.
  Q03  a price that matches no rung on the ladder at all.
  Q04  a surface the gate has no rule for, rather than guessing which rule
       applies.
  L01  a rung with no evidence behind its price and status.
  L03  2 rungs claiming 1 keyword, which no comment can route.
  L04  a bundle whose parts are unverified. HANDLED: The Method bundles 4
       products. 2 of them, Systems That Run Without You and The Week You're
       Actually Having, are named in the handoff and appear in no automation, no
       Payhip link and no artifact in this repo. The Method cannot be priced
       until somebody finds them or drops them.
  L05  a paid rung that credits toward nothing. This is the Codie mechanic the
       benchmark names: every tier lowers the risk of buying the next. The
       Decision Map at $47 and Done Reacting to Money at $37 both take money and
       lead nowhere. That is the missing bridge.
  L06  1 price on 2 rungs.
  L07  a reference to a rung that is not on the ladder.
  L08  a live rung with no keyword and no URL, so there is no way in.
  P09  a caption naming a keyword whose automation is not published. CLEANUP and
       RETAINER are both drafted today.
  P10  a caption handing the reader a word that is not a keyword. This is the
       hole WAITLIST went through. Every other check in gm_cta_check.py reads
       the magnet map, so a word absent from the map was invisible to all of
       them. A caption saying "comment WAITLIST" with a link passed clean.

H01 is a hold, not a failure. A proposed rung that reprices a real one is a
decision, and Amanda makes it.


THE LADDER AS IT STANDS

  Rung  Offer                          Price       PriceStatus  Keyword
  0     Business Bottleneck Check      free        live         BOTTLENECK
  1     Done Reacting to Money         $37         live         BUDGET
  1     The Decision Map               $47         live         DECISION
  1     Systems That Run Without You   none        unverified   none
  1     The Week You're Actually Having none       unverified   none
  2     HANDLED: The Method            $297        proposed     none
  3     The Chaos Cleanup Plan         $750        drafted      CLEANUP
  3     HANDLED: The Intensive         $3,000      proposed     none
  3     Fixed-Fee Project Deposit      $500        proposed     none
  4     Monthly Cleanup Retainer       $600/month  drafted      RETAINER
  4     HANDLED Monthly                $750/month  proposed     none

The ladder does not pass its own audit, and that is why it ships. It names its
own gaps instead of reading clean and hiding them.


HOW TO RUN IT

  python3 scripts/gm_offer_check.py --ladder
  python3 scripts/gm_offer_check.py --queue queue.json
  python3 scripts/gm_offer_check.py --sync automations.json
  python3 scripts/gm_offer_check.py --sync automations.json --scope BOTTLENECK

The sync export is whatever the Blotato automations listing returns, saved as
JSON. Run it before any batch that names a price or a keyword, and after any
change made in Blotato. It reports 5 kinds of disagreement between the tables
and the platform: a keyword the map calls live that nothing answers, a keyword
answering that the map calls draft, an account set that differs, a price in a
DM that differs from the ladder, and a destination URL that differs from the map.

Affiliate and PR automations are deliberately outside the magnet map. The sync
lists them under their own heading and does not count them as findings. There
are 38 of them.

Exit 0 pass, 1 fail, 2 hold. Regression suite: bash filing-system/tests/run-tests.sh.


WHAT IS NOT DECIDED, AND IS NOT THE GATE'S TO DECIDE

  1. HANDLED Monthly at $750 a month, against the retainer drafted at $600 on a
     3 month minimum. Both numbers are Amanda's. The gate holds, it does not pick.
  2. HANDLED: The Intensive at $3,000, against The Chaos Cleanup Plan drafted at
     $750 for what reads as the same engagement.
  3. Whether Systems That Run Without You and The Week You're Actually Having
     exist. Until they do, The Method has 2 parts, not 4, and $297 is priced
     against something nobody can open.
  4. Whether The Decision Map and Done Reacting to Money should credit toward
     The Method or toward the Plan. Right now they credit toward nothing.
  5. WAITLIST. It is not a keyword. Either it becomes one in Blotato, or the
     waitlist post routes through BOTTLENECK, or it does not ship.


LIMITS

The automations were read once, live, on 09/17. The tables are a snapshot and
the sync is the thing that keeps them honest, so run it rather than trusting the
CSV on a later date.

The gate reads prices as digits. A price written out in words is not caught, and
the house voice rule against spelled out numbers is what keeps that from being a
real gap. Run 7's E11_SPELLED_NUMBER catches the general case on holiday posts.

Nothing here was published, sent, priced or approved. Every script in this run
reads. None of them writes to Blotato, Wix, Payhip or MailerLite, and none of
them holds a delete command.
