THE GENTLE MUSE — VIDEO TRIAGE SOP, RUN 3 OF 28

New. Extends the Downloads Maintenance SOP to video. Created 08/19/2026.
Runs 1 and 2 routed documents and statements. Run 3 routes footage.

TOOL: GM-Video-Triage.ps1
Lives with the filing engine. Companion to asset_scanner.py, not a replacement.

WHY THIS RUN EXISTS
asset_scanner.py already does SHA-256 duplicate detection and propose-only
filing. It can't read a video. It can't tell you a clip is 0.8 seconds of
floor, shot sideways, or 22 minutes that needs cutting. Run 3 adds the video
layer and hands the filing decision back to the engine that already works.

THE CONSTRAINT
The footage library is too big to upload and too big to watch. Amanda is not
reviewing 50 clips by hand. The machine reads every file locally, ships back a
few MB of thumbnails and a CSV, and Claude makes the keep or cut call from
that. Nothing large ever leaves the machine.

THE LOOP
1. Run propose-only. Nothing moves.
   .\GM-Video-Triage.ps1 -Root "D:\Takeout"
2. Read SUMMARY.txt. Confirm the counts look sane before anything else.
3. Zip the output folder and send it to Claude. It's small, it's thumbnails
   and a CSV, not video.
4. Claude returns the visual pass, KEEP or CUT or REVIEW, per row.
5. Amanda approves the CUT list. Nothing gets acted on without this step.
6. Re-run with -Execute. Flagged files move to _QUARANTINE.
   .\GM-Video-Triage.ps1 -Root "D:\Takeout" -Execute
7. Approved KEEP rows paste into the Master Asset Index. Columns already match.
8. Log the run. Update the run counter to 3 of 28.

VERDICT RULES
CUT     exact SHA-256 duplicate, under 200 KB, or under 1.5 seconds.
REVIEW  over 15 minutes, landscape, or anything the rules can't call.
KEEP    vertical, between 5 seconds and 3 minutes, reel native.
Machine verdicts are proposals. Amanda's approval is the gate.

LANE INFERENCE
Reads the path and filename, same lanes as the Master Asset Index.
princesa, cesa, golden years  -> CGY
kersh, vending                -> KV
fresh spin, laundry           -> FS
of, onlyfans                  -> OF
family, memories, personal    -> Personal
everything else               -> GM
Override with -Lane GM when a folder is known and mixed.

STATUS INFERENCE
VID_, PXL_, IMG_, MVI_, DSC_, GX, GOPR, or a date-style filename -> Raw.
Everything else -> Review. Matches how the index already reads footage.

OUTPUT
video-triage.csv    Master Asset Index columns, plus Verdict, Why, Duration,
                    Resolution, Orientation, SizeMB, Thumb, FullPath, SHA256.
thumbs\             1 frame per file, 320px, pulled at 10 percent in.
SUMMARY.txt         counts and reclaimable MB.

SAFETY
Propose-only is the default, same house rule as asset_scanner.py.
-Execute moves files. It never deletes them. There's no delete command in the
script at all. _QUARANTINE is a holding folder Amanda empties herself.
Sensitive or personal footage is held, never auto-routed. Same as Run 1.

ALREADY DONE, DRIVE SIDE, 08/19/2026
15 duplicate videos trashed from Google Drive, about 151 MB.
11 loose Avatar Video.mp4 copies, 1 Avatar IV Video.mp4, 1 Quick Avatar
Video.mp4, 2 extra Maya Angelo copies. Every named keeper intact.
Matched on exact byte size plus the 06/22 to 06/23 re-save pattern, not a
content hash. Drive doesn't expose hashes. Recoverable in Trash for 30 days.
Drive is done. Run 3 is the local side.

LIMITS, STATED PLAINLY
Durations and thumbnails need ffmpeg. Without it the run still works and says
so. Install with: winget install Gyan.FFmpeg
Byte-size matching on Drive is strong evidence, not proof. Local runs use real
SHA-256, so the local pass is the stricter one.
The script is validated for syntax and confirmed to hold no delete commands.
It has not been executed on a Windows machine yet. First run is the real test.
Send the error if it throws.

NOT INCLUDED
Photos. Run 4 territory, separate rules, different verdict logic.
Re-encoding, trimming, or any edit. This run sorts. It doesn't touch pixels.
Cloud footage. Drive was handled separately and is finished.

THE REAL CEILING
Only about 5 clips of real Amanda footage sit in Drive. The rest is avatar
renders and finished pieces. If the local library is the same shape, the
bottleneck isn't sorting, it's filming. Run 3 tells us which one it is.
That answer is the actual deliverable.
