THE GENTLE MUSE — HOLIDAY CAPTION STRATEGY SOP, RUN 7 OF 28

New. Created 08/29/2026. Written before the failure, not after it, because the
failure this one prevents is one nobody notices until an audience does.

TOOLS: gm_holiday_bank.py, gm_holiday_check.py
DATA:  data/holiday-calendar.csv, data/holiday-fact-bank.csv
Live with the filing engine. Companions to the content chain, not replacements.

WHY THIS RUN EXISTS
Amanda wants holiday content built on history. Real facts, spooky ones, the
kind of daily trivia that carries a turn. She loves history, her audience will
come to trust her on it, and she wants the content produced without her having
to be in the room.

Those two wants pull against each other in one specific way. Ask any assistant
for a creepy historical Halloween fact and it will give you one. It will be
specific, it will be dated, it will sound exactly right, and there is nothing
in the pipeline that can tell whether it is true. The pairing step has nothing
to pair on, which is the same shape as Run 6: a caption bound to a clip nobody
had described. Here the caption is bound to a claim nobody sourced.

Run 6 is the precedent and the warning. A written rule saying "only use real
facts" cannot hold, because the step that would break the rule cannot tell that
it is breaking it. A confident invention and a checked fact are the same object
to a writing step. So Run 7 adds the missing data, then refuses to ship
anything that cannot be traced back to it.

The second half is the voice. Amanda described the holiday register precisely:
nostalgic, a touch of Disney and whimsy, a millennial born in 1985 who watched
the Disney Channel and Nickelodeon from about 1989 into the late 1990s. That is
not a mood, it is a date range, and a date range is checkable. A reference to
2008 is somebody else's childhood, and it breaks the field just as surely as a
wrong date breaks the history.

THE FIX, IN ONE LINE
Every holiday post binds to a fact that already exists in the bank, with a
source and a backbone. Every year it names is either in that row or inside the
era window, or it does not go out.

THE VOICE, AS DATA
Era window     1989 to 1999. Amanda was 4 to 14. Anything outside it is a
               different generation's nostalgia wearing hers.
Register       carried on the holiday row: spooky-warm, nostalgic-warm, tender,
               reflective, quiet, celebratory. It sets the temperature, not the
               content.
Backbone       every fact row carries the turn. The line that says why the fact
               matters to a woman reading it at 11 at night.

The backbone column is doing real work. The video factory bans whimsy without
weight and post-grader auto-fails generic motivation. A holiday fact with no
turn is exactly what both of those rules are pointed at, and it is the natural
output of a trivia prompt. The whimsy Amanda asked for is allowed because the
backbone is mandatory. That is what "with a backbone" means, made mechanical.

THE LOOP
1. See what is in season.
   python3 gm_holiday_bank.py --season
2. Confirm the bank is sound before planning against it.
   python3 gm_holiday_bank.py --audit
3. Build the plan for the range you are batching.
   python3 gm_holiday_bank.py --plan --from 2026-10-01 --to 2026-10-31 \
       --per-holiday 5 --out plan.csv
   Every row comes out bound to a FactID, with the fact, the source and the
   backbone attached. That is the brief. Nothing has to be remembered.
4. Write the posts from that plan. One fact per post. Say the fact in her
   words, then turn it. The backbone is the turn, rewritten, never pasted.
5. Gate every post before anything reaches Buffer, Blotato or Metricool.
   python3 gm_holiday_check.py --post posts/
6. FAIL means fix and re-run. HOLD means write the missing fact into the bank
   with its source. Neither ships.
7. Run post-grader as normal. The gate is mechanical, post-grader reads.
   Nothing below 8 out of 10.
8. Amanda approves. Then it schedules. Not before.
9. Record the date in the LastUsed column so the fact rests before it repeats.

ADDING A FACT
Append a row to data/holiday-fact-bank.csv. It needs all of:
  FactID     lane prefix and a number. HAL, THX, XMS, NYR, VAL, STP, and so on.
  HolidayID  must exist in holiday-calendar.csv.
  Kind       history, spooky, origin, nostalgia, or myth-bust.
  Fact       one plain sentence. What happened, and when.
  Year       the year it happened, when there is one.
  EraYear    the year of the thing being remembered. Required on nostalgia rows.
  Source     where it came from. A named work, archive, or record. Not "known".
  Backbone   the turn. Why it matters. This is the half that makes it hers.
  Verified   yes, once the source has actually been checked.
A row without a source is not a fact yet. Leave it out until it is one.

ADDING A HOLIDAY
Append to data/holiday-calendar.csv. The Rule column takes:
  fixed:MM-DD        a fixed date
  nth:MM:WD:N        the Nth weekday of a month, Monday 0 through Sunday 6
  last:MM:WD         the last weekday of a month
  easter             Easter Sunday, computed
  offset:HOLIDAY:N   N days from another holiday in the same file
LeadDays and TailDays set how long the content is in season around it.

WHAT THE GATE BLOCKS
E01  the fact_id is not in the bank. This is the invented history failure, and
     it is the reason the run exists.
E02  the bank row cannot carry a post. No source, no backbone, or not verified.
E03  the holiday is not in the calendar.
E04  the fact belongs to a different holiday. Borrowing a Christmas fact for a
     Halloween post is substitution.
E05  the post date is outside the holiday's season.
E06  a nostalgia reference outside 1989 to 1999.
E07  the caption names a year the bank does not source. Decades are allowed to
     paraphrase: the 1690s is a fair way to say 1692.
E08  the post cites a fact and never says it. A FactID that does not appear in
     the writing is decoration, and the claim behind it was never checked.
E09  the post reports the fact and stops. Trivia with no turn.
E10  an em dash or en dash.
E11  a spelled-out number.
E12  more than 5 hashtags.
E13  hype or generic motivation. The mechanical half of post-grader's auto-fails.
E14  a platform rule. A keyword CTA on TikTok, a Short with no title.
E15  the same fact twice in a batch, or inside the 365 day reuse window.

THE SUBSTITUTION BAN
When the bank has no fact for a beat, the only legal move is:
     "fact_id": "HOLD"
The gate reports it as needing a fact and exits 2. The post does not ship.
Reaching for a fact from a neighbouring holiday, or writing one from memory
because it sounds right, is the failure. A missing fact is a research task, not
a writing decision. Silence is not available.

OVERRIDE, USED SPARINGLY
A post can name a date the bank does not carry and still be sound, if the
writer has a second source in hand. Set "override": true and write an
override_reason naming that source. It logs as a NOTE and passes. If overrides
start appearing on most posts, the bank is too thin, not the gate too strict.

VERDICTS
PASS  exit 0   every claim traced to a sourced fact
FAIL  exit 1   blocking findings. Nothing ships.
HOLD  exit 2   clean, but a post is waiting on a fact nobody has written.

Machine verdicts are proposals. Amanda's approval is still the gate.

SAFETY
Both scripts are read-only. gm_holiday_bank.py writes a CSV only when --out is
passed. gm_holiday_check.py writes nothing unless --report is passed. Neither
moves, renames or deletes anything. There is no delete command in either file.
Neither posts, schedules or contacts a platform.

LIMITS, STATED PLAINLY
The gate checks sourcing, not truth. It knows a claim is traceable to a row
somebody wrote and cited. It cannot tell whether that row is right. The bank is
the ceiling on the whole system, exactly as the Shot line is for Run 6.
It cannot catch a caption that contradicts the fact it cites while reusing its
words. A post saying 19 women were burned at Salem, bound to the row saying
nobody was burned, shares enough wording to pass E08. A human still reads
every post. That is what post-grader and Amanda's approval are for.
Year detection reads bare 3 and 4 digit numbers as dates. A caption about 1200
dollars will trip E07. Use the override, or write the amount differently.
"one" and "once" are left out of the spelled-number check on purpose. They are
pronouns as often as counts.
The 50 facts shipped with the bank were written from standard reference works
and each row names where it came from. They have not been re-checked against
those sources by a second reader. The sources are named so that check is
possible, and it is worth doing before the Halloween batch goes out.

NOT INCLUDED
Writing. Run 7 supplies the fact, the register and the plan. The content chain
still writes the post, and post-grader still scores it.
Scheduling. Nothing here touches Buffer, Blotato or Metricool.
Clip binding. That is Run 6, and a holiday reel needs both gates.
Any judgement about whether a fact is interesting. The gate checks whether it
is sourced and turned. Amanda still decides if it is good.
