THE GENTLE MUSE — CAPTION TO CLIP BINDING SOP, RUN 6 OF 28

New. Created 08/28/2026. Written after the second shipped mismatch:
a passenger princess caption bound to a three second sleeping position clip
while the correct passenger princess clip sat in the library, unused.

TOOLS: gm_clip_library.py, gm_bind_check.py
Live with the filing engine. Companions to GM-Video-Triage.ps1, not
replacements.

WHY THIS RUN EXISTS
Run 3 tells you a clip is 11.4 seconds, vertical, 22 MB, and hashes to AAA1.
It does not tell you the clip is Amanda in a passenger seat. Nineteen columns
and not one of them says what is on screen.

So when a caption gets paired to a clip, there is nothing to pair on. The
filenames are VID_20260714_193355.mp4. A passenger princess clip and a sleeping
position clip are the same object to that step. The pairing was a guess every
time, and a guess is wrong at random.

That is why the first correction did not hold. A written rule cannot fix a
missing column. Run 6 adds the column, then refuses to ship anything that
cannot be checked against it.

THE FIX, IN ONE LINE
Every clip carries a sentence describing what is visible. Every caption must
share a real word with that sentence, or it does not render.

THE LOOP
1. Run 3 as normal. Approve the KEEP list.
2. Build the library skeleton from the approved triage.
   python3 gm_clip_library.py --from-triage out\video-triage.csv \
       --out clip-library.csv
3. Describe the clips. Open out\thumbs\ and write one plain sentence per clip
   in the Shot column. What is literally on screen. Not the mood, not the
   caption it might carry one day. Set Described to yes.
   Send the thumbs folder and the CSV to Claude and it drafts the Shot lines.
   Amanda corrects them. Same shape as the Run 3 visual pass.
4. Confirm the library is ready.
   python3 gm_clip_library.py --audit clip-library.csv
   Undescribed clips are reported. They cannot be bound until described.
5. Generate reels. Every render JSON binds by ClipID and carries a
   match_reason.
6. Gate every render JSON before anything reaches Remotion or Buffer.
   python3 gm_bind_check.py --render reels\ --library clip-library.csv
7. FAIL means fix and re-run. HOLD means film the missing beat. Neither ships.
8. Log the run. Update the run counter to 6 of 28.

NEW FOOTAGE
Re-run step 2 with --merge. Descriptions already written are carried forward,
matched on SHA-256 first and path second. A re-triage never wipes the work.

WHAT THE GATE BLOCKS
E01  clip_id is not in the library. An invented clip breaks the render.
E02  clip has no Shot line. Nothing to verify a caption against, so it is
     not bindable. Undescribed is not the same as usable.
E03  the JSON file path disagrees with the library.
E04  the beat is longer than the clip. This is the three second clip carrying
     an eleven second caption.
E05  the clip durations do not sum to the stated duration.
E06  landscape footage in a 9:16 reel.
E07  the on-screen text shares no content word with the Shot line. This is
     the mismatch itself.
E08  no match_reason. If the pairing cannot be said in words it was not made.
E09  one clip carrying two unrelated lines in the same reel.
E10  a bound clip with no text, or a HOLD beat with no text.
E11  a better clip existed. The gate names it. This is the one that catches
     the failure Amanda actually reported: the right clip was in the library
     and a different one got used.

THE SUBSTITUTION BAN
When no clip matches a line, the only legal move is:
     "clip_id": "HOLD"
The gate reports it as needing footage and exits 2. The reel does not ship.
Reaching for the nearest available clip is what produces a mismatch. A missing
clip is a filming task, not a rendering decision. Silence is not available.

OVERRIDE, USED SPARINGLY
A line can be visually true without sharing a word. Discipline over a slow
coffee pour is a real pairing. Set "override": true and write a match_reason
that says what the metaphor is. It logs as a NOTE and passes. If overrides
start appearing on most beats, the library is underdescribed, not the gate
being strict.

VERDICTS
PASS  exit 0   every binding verified
FAIL  exit 1   blocking findings. Nothing ships.
HOLD  exit 2   clean, but beats await footage. Those beats do not ship.

Machine verdicts are proposals. Amanda's approval is still the gate.

SAFETY
Both scripts are read-only against footage. gm_clip_library.py writes exactly
one CSV. gm_bind_check.py writes nothing unless --report is passed. Neither
moves, renames, re-encodes or deletes a video. There is no delete command in
either file.

LIMITS, STATED PLAINLY
The topic check is word overlap, not vision. It catches a caption pointed at
the wrong subject, which is the failure that keeps happening. It cannot tell a
good take from a bad one, and it cannot catch a mismatch between two clips
described in similar words. The Shot line is the ceiling on the whole system:
a lazy description gives a lazy check. One specific sentence per clip is the
entire job.
The gate is only as current as the library. Film without re-running step 2 and
the new clips do not exist as far as the gate is concerned.
Both scripts are Python, not PowerShell like Runs 3 to 5, so they run and were
tested on any machine. The suite is filing-system/tests/run-tests.sh, ten cases
including a reproduction of the reported mismatch. All ten pass.

NOT INCLUDED
Rendering. Run 6 verifies the plan. Remotion still does the render.
Caption styling, timing within a beat, or font. Different problem.
Any judgement about whether a clip is good footage. The gate checks whether it
is the RIGHT footage. Amanda still decides if it is nice.
