THE GENTLE MUSE — DOCUMENT TRIAGE SOP, RUN 5 OF 28

New. Extends the Downloads Maintenance SOP to documents. Created 08/19/2026.
Run 3 routed footage. Run 4 routed stills. Run 5 routes paper.

TOOL: GM-Doc-Triage.ps1
Third module after GM-Video-Triage.ps1 and GM-Photo-Triage.ps1.
Companion to asset_scanner.py. Not a replacement.

WHY DOCUMENTS INVERT THE MODEL
Runs 3 and 4 send Claude a picture and ask for a call. Run 5 can't.
With a photo the image is the evidence and it's safe to share.
With a document the CONTENT is the sensitive part. A bank statement can't be
thumbnailed and sent for a second opinion. So Run 5 flips the flow: the
machine classifies locally, and only a redacted, sensitive-free report ever
leaves the desk.
3 more things change:
1. Versions, not duplicates. v1, v2, final, FINAL_v2, (1), copy. SHA-256 sees
   4 different files. They're 1 document with 4 lives.
2. Newest wins, not largest. Opposite of the Run 4 burst rule. A bigger file
   is a sharper photo. A bigger document is usually just an older one with
   more junk in it.
3. Retention is real. A 2023 bank statement isn't clutter. It's a record with
   a holding period. That's ARCHIVE, never CUT.

THE ENTITY PROBLEM
3 separate LLCs run through this Downloads folder. The Gentle Muse, Kersh
Vending Services, Fresh Spin Laundry. Plus CGY and personal.
Misfiling a photo is untidy. Misfiling a tax document between 2 LLCs is an
accounting problem with a real cost. Every row carries an entity, and anything
the rules can't place lands in UNSORTED rather than guessing GM.

THE HOLD VERDICT
New in Run 5, and it outranks every other rule. Any file matching bank, tax,
EIN, SSN, payroll, insurance, medical, ID, mortgage, lease, or loan is HOLD.
HOLD means: not moved, not renamed, not archived, not sent, not automated.
It's excluded from the shareable report entirely. Amanda routes those by hand.
This is Run 1's "held all sensitive files" rule, written down and enforced by
the tool instead of remembered.

LOCAL SENSITIVE TERMS
The generic rules catch statement, bank, tax, insurance, medical and the rest.
They can't catch a file named after a specific institution.
Put those in sensitive-extra.txt next to the script, 1 term per line. Bank
names, insurers, payroll providers, clinics. That file is gitignored and never
reaches the repo, which is public. Copy sensitive-extra.example.txt to start.
Without it the script still runs and says so on startup.

THE LOOP
1. Run propose-only. Nothing moves.
   .\GM-Doc-Triage.ps1 -Root "$env:USERPROFILE\Downloads"
2. Read SUMMARY.txt. Check the HOLD count first, before anything else.
3. Send doc-triage-SHAREABLE.csv to Claude. Only that file.
   Never send doc-triage-LOCAL-ONLY.csv. It holds full names and paths.
4. Claude returns routing calls per row, and a Hub destination for FILE rows.
5. Amanda approves. Nothing gets acted on without this step.
6. Re-run with -Execute. CUT files move to _QUARANTINE.
7. FILE and ARCHIVE rows route to the Hub by hand or by asset_scanner.py,
   using the naming convention Run 1 established for statements.
8. Log the run. Update the run counter to 5 of 28.

VERDICT RULES
HOLD     sensitive. Outranks everything. Never automated.
CUT      installer, exact duplicate, older version in a family, under 5 KB.
ARCHIVE  aged receipt or record past the current year. Kept, not deleted.
FILE     entity document or current receipt. Belongs in the Hub.
REVIEW   anything the rules can't call.
Machine verdicts are proposals. Amanda's approval is the gate.

VERSION FAMILY LOGIC
Filenames are normalized before grouping. Stripped: (1), (2), copy, final,
draft, rev, revised, updated, new, latest, v1, v2, v1.2, and trailing dates.
Same normalized name plus same extension equals 1 family. Newest modified date
wins. Everything older is CUT and tagged with its family name, so a wrong call
is reversible by filtering one column.

THE 2 REPORTS
doc-triage-LOCAL-ONLY.csv   Full names, full paths, HOLD rows included.
                            This file never leaves the machine. Not to Claude,
                            not to Drive, not to email.
doc-triage-SHAREABLE.csv    HOLD rows stripped out. Digit runs of 4 or more
                            masked. Account, routing, EIN and SSN patterns
                            masked. This is the only one that gets sent.
Redaction is on by default. -NoRedact exists for local use and should stay off.

INSTALLERS AND BUNDLES
.exe, .msi, .dmg, .pkg, .appx and .deb are CUT on sight. They're
re-downloadable and they're the heaviest junk in a Downloads folder.
.zip, .rar, .7z and .tar are classified but not auto-cut. A zip can hold
anything, including records.

LANE INFERENCE
gentle muse, gm, payhip, manychat, blotato -> GM
kersh, vending, kv                         -> KV
fresh spin, laundry, fs                    -> FS
princesa, cesa, golden years               -> CGY
family, memories, personal, resume         -> Personal
no match                                   -> UNSORTED
UNSORTED is deliberate. A wrong entity guess is worse than no guess.

SAFETY
Propose-only is the default, same house rule as asset_scanner.py.
-Execute moves CUT files to _QUARANTINE. It never deletes them.
There's no delete command anywhere in this script. Verified before release.
HOLD files are never moved, even in -Execute mode.

LIMITS, STATED PLAINLY
Classification reads filenames and folder paths, not file contents. A bank
statement named "scan_004.pdf" won't be caught. Review the UNSORTED and REVIEW
piles by eye before running -Execute the first time.
The redaction masks digits and labeled patterns. It isn't a guarantee that a
filename holds nothing private. Read the shareable CSV once before sending it.
Version normalization is a filename heuristic. 2 genuinely different documents
with similar names will group. That's why the family name is in the CSV.
The script is syntax-validated and confirmed to hold no delete command. It
hasn't been executed on a Windows machine yet. First run is the real test.

NOT INCLUDED
Video and photos. Runs 3 and 4, already written.
Content reading, OCR, or text extraction. Deliberate. Contents stay unread so
nothing sensitive can leak into a report by accident.
Automatic Hub routing. asset_scanner.py already owns filing. Run 5 decides
what deserves filing. It doesn't do the filing.
Shredding or secure delete. Nothing here deletes anything.

THE REAL CEILING
Run 1 halved the Downloads folder by hand and filed 43 statements. Run 2
routed roughly 150 files. Run 5 is the version that doesn't need Amanda to
look at any of it first, except the HOLD pile, which is exactly the pile that
should always get her eyes. If the HOLD count comes back small, the folder was
never the risk. If it comes back large, that's the finding, and it's worth
more than the megabytes.
