THE GENTLE MUSE AND FRESH SPIN — THE MASTERY LADDER

New. Created 09/14/2026. Written from Avery's sequencing note and the numbers
already in this repo, not from a fresh opinion about what should come first.

TOOLS: gm_ladder_check.py
DATA:  data/mastery-ladder.csv, data/acquisition-gates.csv
TESTS: tests/run-tests.sh, 22 cases

WHAT AMANDA ASKED FOR
Keep it stupid. Sequence it fast. One thing at a time, master it, then master
the next one.

That is the whole specification and it is a good one, because it names the
failure precisely. The problem is not that the plan is wrong. The plan is fine.
The problem is that 7 good ideas are all live at once and each of them is 30
percent finished in month 7.

WHAT AVERY GOT RIGHT, AND WHAT WAS MISSING
The note is correct on both counts that matter. Goals are not equally urgent,
and the natural instinct here runs backwards: expand, automate, improve,
distribute, sell. The right order is protect, sell, distribute, improve,
automate, expand.

What the note could not do is stop the thing it describes. It is guidance, and
guidance governs judgment. Judgment is what already fails here. This repo has
been through that twice already. Run 6 was captions landing on the wrong clips,
and the fix was not a reminder to check, it was the missing description column
plus a gate. Run 8 was calls to action with nothing behind them, and the fix was
not better writing, it was a contract field the render could not ship without.

So the sequence is a data file with an exit test on every row, and a gate that
refuses to call a later station today's work.

THE RULE
One work station is open at a time. It closes when its DoneWhen is proven by
something a second person could check. Not when it feels done.

Clock stations are the single exception and they are marked as such in the file.
A clock station is a few hours a month and then the calendar. S03, the Kersh
operating record, is one. So is S14, funding the reserve floor. They run
underneath the open work station, because waiting is not attention and there is
no reason for the calendar to be idle while Gentle Muse is the one thing.

THE SEQUENCE, IN ONE SCREEN
  S01  both        Split the money into 4 books                    protect
  S02  gentle-muse Write the Friday number down                    protect
  S03  kersh       Start the Kersh operating record        clock   protect
  S04  gentle-muse Make the capture machine fire                   sell
  S05  gentle-muse Name 1 offer and sell it once                   sell
  S06  gentle-muse Give the history lane its own magnet            distribute
  S07  gentle-muse Reach 500 followers on the main account         distribute
  S08  gentle-muse Find the 1 topic that makes subscribers         improve
  S09  gentle-muse Sell the same offer 10 times down 1 path        sell
  S10  gentle-muse Codify the week that won                        improve
  S11  gentle-muse Automate the week that won                      automate
  S12  fresh-spin  Learn the 6 numbers a laundromat runs on        improve
  S13  fresh-spin  Underwrite 10 real listings on 1 template       improve
  S14  fresh-spin  Write the reserve floor and fund it     clock   protect
  S15  fresh-spin  Build the lender file                           sell
  S16  fresh-spin  Get 1 lender to say yes or no in writing        sell
  S17  gentle-muse Pick the 1 scale lever the data earned          expand
  S18  fresh-spin  Run 1 real deal through the 8 gates             expand

Gentle Muse holds the first 11 because it is the only one of the 2 that can
produce money this quarter. Fresh Spin is not idle during them. S03 starts at
position 3 and runs underneath everything, which means the Kersh operating
record is 6 months old by the time S13 needs it rather than 6 weeks old.

WHY THE FIRST 5 ARE WHERE THEY ARE
S01 is first because 3 LLCs already run through 1 Downloads folder. That is why
Run 5 routes documents by entity at all. Every station below reads a number off
these books, and right now the question "is Gentle Muse making money" has no
answer, because there is no set of books that could produce one.

S02 is second because posting-cadence.csv already schedules a Friday review at
16:00 that reads 1 number, followers gained this week, and there is no file it
writes to. No week can be compared to the week before it. Phase 2 of Avery's
note asks which topics work. That question is unanswerable until weeks are
comparable, which is why it sits at S08 and not at S03.

S04 is the one that matters most and it comes from the audit, not from a hunch.
30,671 views produced 13 email subscribers. keyword-audit.csv says why: 13
automations live, 1 contact ID across nearly all of them, and 8 of the 13 have
never fired once. That is not a writing problem. Better captions do not touch
it. The machine was built, went live, and was never pointed at.

S05 is 1 sale to 1 stranger, because magnet-map.csv carries 8 magnets and not
one of them is a product. Everything live is free. Until somebody pays once
there is no money path to optimise, and every conversation about scale is a
conversation about a hypothesis.

WHERE THE LADDER SAYS NOT YET
S11 is automation, and it is 11th on purpose. That is the station Amanda's
instinct wants to start at. Automating an unproven week produces the wrong thing
faster and with less attention on it, so everything above that line exists to
make sure the thing being multiplied is worth multiplying.

The gate enforces this rather than mentioning it. L05_WORKING_AHEAD refuses any
automate or expand station sequenced before a sell or distribute station of the
same company that is not finished. L06_EXPAND_UNPROTECTED refuses an expand
station that gets ahead of a protect station. Move S11 up the file and the
audit fails. That is the point.

WHAT COUNTS AS CLOSING A STATION
An exit test has to be checkable by somebody who is not Amanda. A number, a
named file, or a signature. L03_UNCOUNTABLE refuses a DoneWhen with none of the
3 in it.

L10_FEELING_TEST refuses the specific way a mastery station fails, which is an
exit test that turns on a feeling. "Understand the numbers" has no last day.
"6 numbers written down, each with a source Amanda read herself" has one. The
same distinction is the difference between "I know about laundromats" and "hand
me a listing and I know exactly what to ask", and only the second is a station.

A closed station has to leave something behind. L04_NO_PROOF refuses a done row
with an empty proof. H01_PROOF_NOT_FILED holds when the proof names a file that
is not in the repo yet, which is a wait on Amanda rather than a failure.

THE TASK ROUTER
This is the part that gets used daily. Ask it whether a thing belongs to today.

  python3 gm_ladder_check.py --task "build a due diligence checklist"

It answers that the task is S13, that S13 is locked behind S12, and that today
is S01. Exit 1. The task is not wrong, it is early, and the difference is the
whole methodology.

An unmatched task exits 2 and stops. It is never filed under the nearest station
that fits, because that is rule 5 and this is exactly where it would be tempting
to break it. If a task genuinely matches nothing, either a station is missing
from the file, in which case write the station, or the work is not this
quarter's, in which case it goes nowhere.

THE 8 ACQUISITION GATES
Avery's gates are in acquisition-gates.csv with a countable test on each one.
The template ships with all 8 unproven, which is the correct starting state, and
a fresh sheet returns HOLD rather than PASS.

Copy it per deal, fill the Verdict and Evidence columns, and run it:

  python3 gm_ladder_check.py --deal deals/maple-st.csv

A gate marked pass with an empty Evidence column is refused. A verdict outside
pass, fail and unproven is refused. A sheet missing a gate is refused, which is
the one that matters, because a dropped gate looks exactly like a passed one on
a spreadsheet somebody is reading at 11pm.

Gate 6 is the reason S14 is a clock station. It cannot be answered by the deal,
only by a balance that existed before the deal showed up. Gate 3 puts a real
manager wage back into the cash flow, because seller's discretionary earnings
usually assumes Amanda works there for free, and a business that only clears
when she is the labour is a job bought at a premium.

8 of 8 passing is still a proposal. Amanda decides. That is rule 4 and this
module does not get an exception to it just because the number is large.

HOW TO RUN IT
  python3 filing-system/scripts/gm_ladder_check.py --today
  python3 filing-system/scripts/gm_ladder_check.py --task "..."
  python3 filing-system/scripts/gm_ladder_check.py --ladder
  python3 filing-system/scripts/gm_ladder_check.py --deal deals/name.csv
  bash filing-system/tests/run-tests.sh

Exit 0 passes. Exit 1 blocks. Exit 2 holds and waits on Amanda.

CLOSING A STATION
Edit mastery-ladder.csv. Set the closed row to done and fill ProofIs with what
proves it. Set the next row to open. Run --ladder. If it passes, the move was
legal. If it does not, the gate names which rule it broke.

Nothing here closes a station on its own and nothing here is scheduled. The file
is the record and Amanda moves it.

WHAT THIS DOES NOT DO
It does not check whether a DoneWhen actually happened. It cannot see a bank
balance, a Metricool number or a lender's letter, and it does not pretend to.
It checks that the sequence is sound, that every exit test is the kind of thing
that could be checked, and that today's work is today's.

It does not decide the stations are the right stations. That is Amanda's and
Avery's call. It holds them in one file so that when the order changes, it
changes once, in a place every assistant reads.

SAFETY
Propose-only. The script reads. It never moves, renames or deletes anything, and
it writes no file at all. Nothing is scheduled or published. A PASS is a
proposal.
